---
title: "Class Path Wild Cards"
---


Class path entries can contain the base name wildcard character (`*`),
which is considered equivalent to specifying **a list of all of the files** in the directory with the extension `.jar` or `.JAR`.
For example, the class path entry `mydir/*` specifies **all JAR files** in the directory named `mydir`.
A class path entry consisting of `*` expands to **a list of all the jar files** in the **current directory**.
Files are considered regardless of whether they are hidden (have names beginning with '.').

> wildcard 的作用

A class path entry that contains an asterisk (`*`) does not match **class files**.
To match both **classes** and **JAR files** in a single directory `mydir`, use either `mydir:mydir/*` or `mydir/*:mydir`.
The order chosen determines whether the classes and resources in `mydir` are loaded before JAR files in `mydir` or vice versa.

> wildcard 只支持 jar 文件，不支持 class file

Subdirectories are not searched recursively.
For example, `mydir/*` searches for JAR files only in `mydir`, not in `mydir/subdir1`, `mydir/subdir2`, and so on.

> 不递归搜索子目录

The order in which the JAR files in a directory are enumerated in the expanded class path is not specified and
may vary from platform to platform and even from moment to moment on the same machine.
A well-constructed application should not depend upon any particular order.
If a specific order is required, then the JAR files can be enumerated explicitly in the class path.

> 如果使用 wildcard，各个 jar 文件加载的顺序是不固定的

Expansion of wild cards is done early, before the invocation of a program's `main` method, rather than late, during the class-loading process.
Each element of the input class path that contains a wildcard is replaced by the (possibly empty) sequence of elements
generated by enumerating the JAR files in the named directory.
For example, if the directory `mydir` contains `a.jar`, `b.jar`, and `c.jar`,
then the class path `mydir/*` is expanded into `mydir/a.jar:mydir/b.jar:mydir/c.jar`,
and that string would be the value of the system property `java.class.path`.

> 如何对 wildcard 进行展开

The `CLASSPATH` environment variable is not treated any differently from the `-classpath` or `-cp` options.
Wild cards are honored in all of these cases.
However, class path wild cards are not honored in the `Class-Path` jar-manifest header.

> wildcard 的应用范围：在 CLASSPATH 和 -classpath 中支持；而在 Jar 包当中的 Class-Path 中不支持。

## Reference

- [Setting the Class Path](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/tools/unix/classpath.html)
