---
title: "java.util.Collections#max"
sequence: "131"
---

Example (before generification, taken from package java.util ):

```java
class Collections {
  public static Object max(Collection coll) {...}
  ...
}
```

The `max` method finds the largest element in a collection and obviously the declared return type of the method should match the element type of the collection passed to the method. A conceivable generification could look like this.

Example (after a naive generification):

```java
class Collections {
  public static <T extends Comparable<? super T>>
  T max(Collection <? extends T> coll)  {...}
  ...
}
```

While this generification preserves **the semantics of the method**, it changes the signature of the `max` method. It is now a method with return type `Comparable`, instead of `Object`.

Example (after type erasure):

```java
class Collections {
  public static Comparable max(Collection coll)  {...}
  ...
}
```

This will break existing code that relies on the binary compatibility of the `.class` files. In order to preserve the signature and thus the binary compatibility, an otherwise superfluous bound can be used.

Example (after binary compatible generification, as available in package `java.util`):

```java
class Collections {
  public static <T extends Object & Comparable<? super T>>
  T max(Collection <? extends T> coll)  {...}
  ...
}
```

The leftmost bound of the type parameter is now type `Object` instead of type `Comparable`, so that the type parameter `T` is replaced by `Object` during type erasure.

Example (after type erasure):

```java
class Collections {
  public static Object max(Collection coll)  {...}
  ...
}
```

Afterthought:

Perhaps you wonder why the hack decribed in this FAQ entry is needed. Indeed, had the `Collections.max` method been defined as returning a `Comparable` in the first place, no further measures, such as adding `Object` as a type parameter bound, had been required to preserve binary compatibility. Basically, the declared return type `Object` is a mistake in the design of this method.

If you carefully study the specification of the `Collections.max` method's functionality then you realize that all elements of the collection are required to implement the `Comparable` interface. Consequently, the returned object is `Comparable`, too.  There is no reason why the method should return an `Object` reference.

The only explanation one can think of is that in pre-generic Java there was no way of ensuring by compile-time type checks that the Collection contains only `Comparable` objects.  However, this was ensured via runtime type checks, namely an explicit downcast in the implementation of the method.  Hence this is not really an excuse for the bug.

Note, that the runtime time type check in the pre-generic version of the `Collections.max` method still exists in the generic version.  The former explicit cast is now an implicit one generated by the compiler.  In the generic version, this cast can never fail (unless there are unchecked warnings), because the type parameter bound `Comparable` ensures at compile-time that the elements in the `Collection` are `Comparable`.
